# Data Files

These files contains the descriptions and cutoffs used for the different assays. The files contained within this folder were generated during the preparation of the current repository. High-level instructions on how to generate these files and their content are given here.

## activities.csv  # TO-CHEK @miquel

This table contains all ChEMBL bioactivity data.

🟡 How was it downloaded?


## activity_commments.csv

This table was generated by first extracting all the activity comments in ChEMBL with the following query:

```sql
\COPY (
    SELECT
        activity_comment,
        COUNT(*) AS count,
        RANK() OVER (ORDER BY COUNT(*) DESC) AS rank
    FROM
        activities
    GROUP BY
        activity_comment
    ORDER BY
        rank
) TO '/path/to/data/activity_comments.csv' CSV HEADER;
```

Then, we used Llamafile (with Gemma 2 9B instruct) to further annotate the table with 1 (active), -1 (inactive) and 0 (inconclusive). Visual inspection of the results was conducted.

## activity_std_units.csv

This table contains all the standard units observed in the activities table of the ChEMBL database. It is obtained with the following query:

```sql
\COPY (
    SELECT 
        standard_type, 
        standard_units, 
        COUNT(*) AS count
    FROM 
        activities
    GROUP BY 
        standard_type, 
        standard_units
    ORDER BY 
        count DESC
)
TO '/path/to/data/activity_std_units.csv' WITH CSV HEADER;
```

## activity_std_units_with_3_assay_descriptions.csv  # TO-CHEK @miquel

This table contains all ...

## activity_stds_lookup.csv

This table is an extension of the `activity_stds_lookup` table in ChEMBL, which can be obtained as follows:

```sql
\COPY
    (SELECT
        *
    FROM
        activity_stds_lookup
) TO '/path/to/data/activity_stds_lookup.csv' WITH CSV HEADER;
```

Then, we used again Llamafile to further annotate the table with the direction of the desired activity. A value of 1 means that the higher the the more active. A value of -1 means that the lower the more active. A value of 0 means inconclusive. Pharmacokinetic measurements were preferentially given an inconclusive value.

## all_activities.csv  # TO-CHECK @miquel

This table contains all ...

## all_molecules.csv  # TO-CHECK @miquel

This table contains all ...

## assay_descriptions.csv  # TO-CHECK @miquel

This table contains all ...

## chembl_35_chemreps.txt  # TO-CHECK @miquel

This file contains all ChEMBL compounds (2,474,591 for ChEMBL v35). Downloaded from https://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/chembl/ChEMBLdb/latest/

## pathogens.csv # TO-CHECK

List of pathogens to gather data from. Extend as needed. Includes columns:
- pathogen_code: A short code for each pathogen. Lowercase, no spaces.
- search_text: Full name of the pathogen as documented in ChEMBL (?).

## standard_text.csv

This is a convenient field in the activities table in ChEMBL. This table can be generated as follows:

```sql
\COPY (
    SELECT DISTINCT
        standard_text_value
    FROM
        activities
) TO '/path/to/data/standard_text.csv' CSV HEADER;
```

The table is small. We manually annotated it with active (1), inactive (-1) or inconclusive (0) classifications.

## standard_units_conversions.csv  # TO-CHECK @miquel

This table contains all ...